---
title: Aramingo
description: It was a very small and impossible thing to find, but aren’t those the things that sear you with its unwanted surprise? An old business card from a Turkish restaurant that has since been shuttered. The food on the poor side, the company never better. It was wedged in a book of poems by e.e. cummings. Fell out during the move. On the back, a messy address that is linked forever to you. 4421 Aramingo, that immortal junkyard where they dispatched cabs. Where dirty-shirted immigrants who looked like my uncles all crowded around as we walked through... 
tags: stories
layout: layouts/base
---
It was a very small and impossible thing to find, but aren’t those the things that sear you with its unwanted surprise? An old business card from a Turkish restaurant that has since been shuttered. The food on the poor side, the company never better. It was wedged in a book of poems by e.e. cummings. Fell out during the move. On the back, a messy address that is linked forever to you. 4421 Aramingo, that immortal junkyard where they dispatched cabs. Where dirty-shirted immigrants who looked like my uncles all crowded around as we walked through. 

We had been to a party at Broad and Susquehanna, and it was the first night I found out you couldn’t drink vodka like the other Russians and smoke pot at the same time. You lay down in the hall with the spins, spoke in 90 proof tongues, and flowered out the must of the apartment with your perfume. Everybody who stepped over us on the way to the kitchen complimented me on what a great woman you were. Oh, you were something of the best. I called Capitol Cabs, stroked your hair, loaded you in. You cried because you thought it was embarrassing and––when you puked in the bush––that you had ruined my night. I hate people, didn’t you know that? I am always the first to leave. All I wanted was to go back to that quiet street in Drexel and be alone with you. Yes, alone. Even with you I sometimes felt alone. I am always alone. I am alone now. But alone with you was mostly beautiful and changed me chemically. The 212th degree that brought me to boil when I had been stuck at 211 for so long, only brimming with the potential. 

You lost your cell in the cracks of leather on the cab ride home, so I called Capitol on the half-hour while watching you sleep, scared to leave you alone so sick. And when Barbara called me back at 4 a.m., I scribbled the address on that card and took the subway with you later in the morning to get the phone back. Now I know that it’s not a remarkable thing to lose a phone in a cab and for me then to go to the lengths that any decent person would go to in order to retrieve it, but as we walked away from the junkyard you had fallen in love. You wrapped your arms around me on the returning subway like somehow I could slip away into the black void at 34th Street, charged with the sound of trains barreling through. 

A week later in New Jersey, your cousin told me that you had never spoken about a man like you spoke about me. That I was fair and determined and good. I wonder how you speak of the man you have now, and then realize it doesn’t matter because you’re not mine and I’m not yours. I tucked the card back into the book of poems and dropped it off at the Goodwill. I made a big deal with my intentions again and romanticized it to death, thinking that another person and many persons after would hold a fragment of our story. I slipped it into the bin. It doesn’t belong to us anymore. Has it ever?